			ANNOUNCING NCURSES

The ncurses library is a freeware emulation of System V Release 4.0 curses.
It uses terminfo format, supports color and multiple highlights and forms
characters, and has all the other SV-curses enhancements over BSD curses.

The ncurses code is highly portable, and runs on all of the following
platforms: Linux, 386BSD, SunOS, HP-UX, Ultrix, NeXTSTEP 3.0, System V
Release 4, BSDI BSD/386, Apollo, AIX 3.2.5, Solaris 2.3.  It should port
easily to any ANSI/POSIX-conforming UNIX.

The distribution includes the library and support utilities, including 
a terminfo compiler tic(1), a decompiler infocmp(1), clear(1), tput(1), 
and a termcap conversion tool captoinfo(1).  Full manual pages are 
provided for the library and tools.

			FEATURES OF NCURSES

* Full support for SVr4 curses features including keyboard mapping, color,
  and forms-drawing with ACS characters.

* Almost all of the SVr4 calls have been implemented.  Only 1 of 257
  calls is not yet supported.

* Better cursor-movement optimization.  The package now features a
  cursor-local-movement computation more efficient than either BSD's
  or SV's.

* Super hardware scrolling support.  The screen-update code
  incorporates a novel algorithm that enables it to make optimal
  use of hardware scrolling, line-insertion, and line-deletion
  for screen-line movements.  This algorithm is more powerful than
  the BSD curses quickch() routine.

* (PC-clone boxes only) Support for access to the IBM PC ROM characters
  through a new highlight, A_PCCHARSET.  Also, ncurses will now
  automatically load a nice set of nice forms characters when running
  on PC-compatible consoles.

* Automatic fallback to the /etc/termcap file can be compiled in
  for systems withould a terminfo tree.  This feature is neither
  fast nor cheap, you don't want to use it unless you have to,
  but it's there.

* An HTML "Introduction to Programming with NCURSES" document.

			STATE OF THE PACKAGE

The ncurses code has been tested with a wide variety of games and utilities,
including:

	lynx-2.4	-- the character-screen WWW browser
	bs-2.0		-- Battleships game with proper visual interface
	greed-3.1	-- the game of Greed
	nolan-1.1	-- the World's Smallest Political Quiz
	vh-1.6		-- Volks-Hypertext browser for the Jargon File
	blue		-- Blue Moon solitare game
	u386mon		-- System performance monitor for SVr4
	nvi		-- New vi alpha version 1.1.34

The ncurses distribution includes a selection of test programs.

			WHO'S WHO AND WHAT'S WHAT

The primary maintainer of ncurses is Zeyd ben-Halim <zmbenhal@netcom.com>.
Unfortunately, he can only work on the package part time.  As a result, since
1.8.1, much of the enhancement work and all the documentation has been done by
Eric S. Raymond <esr@snark.thyrsus.com>.  However, requests for beta releases
and other queries should properly be directed to Zeyd.

There is an ncurses mailing list.  It is a listserv list; to join, write
to listserv@netcom.com with a message containing the line

	subscribe ncurses-list <name>@<host.domain>

This list is open to anyone interested in helping with the development and
testing of this package.

			WHITHER BSD CURSES?

Keith Bostic, the maintainer of BSD curses, has undertaken that if ncurses
proves stable and usable with nvi, he will switch to ncurses for the nvi (new
vi) distribution and pronounce BSD curses officially dead.

It is therefore probable that the next re-packaging of 4.4BSD curses
will, in fact, use ncurses.

BSDI has said that they will cut over to ncurses if and when Keith gives the
word.  Where BSDI goes, freeBSD and netBSD are likely to follow.

